Ok, so the culture and the way each program is set up at each of these places is quite different. These three are probably the top three math undergraduate programs in the world, although a few other schools are really trying to get there too and some places, like Independent University of Moscow/ MechMat MSU, Ecole Normale and Trinity [at] Cambridge are and historically have been legendary.

Harvard is really quite like Arvin Chang described for those math students who have aspirations of becoming mathematicians : "a crucible where the iron is separated from the slag. If you are iron, you are forged and tempered into something new, strong and shiny... if you are the slag... you are discarded and left to fend for yourself". The program makes some of the best mathematicians of our time, but going there is probably a mistake if you want to be a mathematician but aren't already an absolutely fantastic math student.

MIT is a very welcoming place. It takes people from every background and gives them the right challenge for that background. For the very well prepared students, that means early graduate courses and lots of research activities. For those who found high school math to be interesting and liked it most out of their school subjects, it means they can still have reasonable expectations of success at MIT and a good experience. The only people who are left sort of in between are those undergrads that don't have enough background or maturity for the graduate courses but really need harder undergrad classes to be challenged. Many of them just take many courses at once to compensate.

Princeton is a brilliant and beautiful place. The undergrad classes are very tough, but they are still undergraduate classes. The graduate classes are an insanely difficult leap from the undergraduate classes, in a way that really discourages undergraduates who haven't exhausted their curriculum to go for them and then only slowly. The department also has really awesome things to keep them busy like the junior seminars and essays.
I think you might feel a lot more camaraderie at Princeton among the undergraduate class, because they are mostly taking the same classes together. Obviously, this depends a little bit more on the people themselves in the moment than anything else, but it's what the program creates.

In short, there is no better. The only thing to keep in mind is that these programs suit different kinds of math students better than others and that while the academics are outstanding all around, they are all quite different from each other. Hopefully, students are able to get informed and find good matches in their respective programs.
I was a Caltech undergraduate (in the ‘80s), and a graduate student at Princeton and MIT, though I also took Harvard classes.

I'm quite satisfied that my Caltech math major education was much better than I could have gotten at the other schools. One extremely big difference between the schools was that, at least at the time, the big classes were taught en masse by the same few permanent faculty each year, leaving the visiting faculty to teach an incredible wealth of one-shot special topics classes. There was always way more available to choose from than I had time for.

Exactly the opposite was true at Princeton, despite being a much larger program. Most egregiously, my first year there they didn't bother teaching the first year grad classes. This wasn't my problem since I'd already taken them but if I'd been an undergrad there I'd have been really unhappy about it.

If you do pursue a math major at Caltech, take Math 5 as soon as possible!

I would go with the one that likes you the best. Princeton had brilliant math professors who were horrible teachers, some of whom barely spoke English. A friend of mine once asked a question: "Can you please explain that?" and the prof actually replied, "I'm here to teach, not explain." One time I tried to ask a prof a question, and he literally ran away from me... literally!

Even a prof in my freshman Honors Linear Algebra class admitted to me that he couldn't follow a proof I did on the final, using reasoning from the converse (i.e. indirect proof) -- which is a technique most of us learned in 8th grade. So, it was pretty shabby at Princeton, in some ways.

The school was actually pretty corrupt. I had already passed out of the math requirement before entering, with a top score on the Advanced Calculus BC Advanced Placement Test, but despite their claims to honor such scores, they later reneged on their commitment (funny, since all the AP tests were written by Princeton faculty members) and made me take math classes I had absolutely no interest in. It might be worth mentioning that a girl committed suicide in the first week of my freshman year, by jumping off the math building tower. So, a few other people had some issues with that department, too.

On the other hand, the best math class I ever took was Advanced Logic, but it was in the Philosophy department, not math.
All comparably excellent. For undergrad they’re just about identical in quality and for grad school Princeton is probably a bit more prestigious than the other two but really at that point you are splitting hairs. Any top-6 math program will be more or less of the same quality.

There's one basic governing principle in academic research universities. Researchers like to work with other good researchers in their field so a good department is one with good researchers and it stays good as long as the structural factors (support, admin, housing, working conditions, tenure considerations, sharing of licensing and patent income) remain in place because those good researchers will attract other good researchers. That's why Turing, Einstein, von Neumann, and so forth and so on, came to Princeton to do their doctoral research and/or came to stay to do academic research. Princeton has had a good math department since the establishment of the Institute for Advanced Studies just before WWII and the symbiosis between the Math Deparment and the IAS has continued to maintain the world's highest ranked group to this day.